So here are my devices.
First thing is let's configure the Rodda so deface fust.
Ethan it is 0 0.
No shut interface first.
Ethan It's 0 0 1 so I'm going to create a sub interface with IP address 10 1 2 1 2 2 5 4.
But notice what's going to happen when I press enter.
I'm told that configuring IP routing on a LAN sub interface is only allowed if that sub interfaces are
ready configured as part of an ADA to that one.
Q So the line from the top and kept isolation got one key line one and this is on native land untagged.
Vigeland So now I can put the IP address on that sub interface second something to face in kept solution.
Got one key villain to IP Address 10 1 to 2 2 5 4 slushed 24 mosque suit sub interface.
This is going to be encapsulation dupped one key violent three an IP address 10 1 3 2 5 4 slushed 24
mosque.
So it does show run pipe begin face.
So here is our first interface here.
Our office three sub interfaces that's how you configure in TV land routing on a Rotto on a stick.
So lets configure our PCs show IP shows that PC one doesn't currently have an IP address.
So IP Tendo one to one slash 24 mosque default gateway is the Raanta PC to IP Address 10 or to treat
one
turned out one to three to five for so PC one ping its default gateway.
Yes it can.
What about PC to.
It can also ping its default gateway.
So these two PCs can paying Rato one on the respect of sub interfaces.
Can the PCs ping each other.
PC one paying 10 1 3 1 Ping's succeeds PC to paying $10 one to two to one Ping's succeeds that traffic
is being switched to the Rodda being interval and routed and sent back to PC to
all deal with shock capture in a moment.
But notice what happens when I shut the physical interface Foster Ethan it is 0 0
PC one is no longer able to ping PC to when no shut the interface on the Rodda
interface comes up and pings start succeeding.
That's how you configure it to switch with different villans and an external Rodda acting as a Rotto
on a stick during the interview and routing.
So now let's run a one shot capture so we can see what's actually happening.
I'm going to run the y shall capture on the switch so we can see the frames going to the Rodda.
So when PC one Ping's PC two we should see that it's tagged with relend too.
But when it comes back again from the Rodda it's tagged with the LAN three
PC one ping PC to.
So we can see the traffic from 10 1 to 1 going to 10 1 3 1 in the frame.
We can see it's tagged with the line to the destination MAC address of this frame.
He's the rodef show interface is 0 0
notice the Mac address.
See 2 0 1 1 e 3 C quadruple 0.
So that frame is going to the router tagged with Villon to he has another frame.
Notice the source Mac address is the router and the villain ID is Villon 3.
So what's happened is the frame arrived on port 1 was sent out a port three going to the Rodda tagged
with land to and was received back from the Rodda going to PC to get received on this port tagged as
villaine 3.
And once again there's the frame going to the Rodda tagged with the Leonti.
Here's the frame from the Rodda source mac address of the router tagged with villaine 3 the IP packet
is stole from PC one going to PC to.
So what about the return traffic.
Yes.
Traffic from PC to note is tagged with violent three going to the rodder.
So that's the frame here going to the router.
Here's the frame from the router tagged with the Leonti.
So once again hits untagged hits the switch is tagged as Villines 3 to the Rodda.
It's in TV land rodded tagged is violent to send sent back to the switch.
Untagged 2 pc 1.
So we are seeing the tag frame on pork's 3 from PC to to the Rodda tagged in villaine 3.
And then here from the router two PC one tagged in the land to.